Comments from the editors and reviewers:
- Reviewer 1

  - This paper is a nice extension of the prior LCTES paper.

All aspects of the paper have been improved, most notably - for me - the motivation is greatly improved.
The presentation of the semantics with more room is also beneficial and makes this paper the better reference to read.

I have no major concerns and would be happy to see this paper accepted in its current form.

- Reviewer 2

  - I read and reviewed a first version of this paper when it has been submitted
to the LCTES conference, at which it was accepted.
My review for this extended version will not be very different from that
I made for the conference.

The paper presents an operational semantics for the imperative synchronous language Céu
(a language which was inspired by Esterel).
The semantics is used to prove general properties of determinism, termination (of a reaction)
and memory-boundedness.

As a semantic paper, its main section (Section 3, "Formal Semantics of Céu"),
which follows a section in which the language is nicely informally presented,
is very technical and not always easy to read. This is not necessarily a problem,
and indeed, after a careful reading, the whole development seems totally correct.

In my first review, I had the following remark that "the reader is not a machine and sometimes,
some more explanations or concrete examples for the precise meaning of the rules
and intuition behind them could help the reading".
In this new version, which integrates some changes in the presentation of the formal semantics,
I had the impression that I was able to follow more easily the description.
I also appreciated the more explicit handling of the memory in the semantics.
Also in my first review, I required for a simple running example, that would have helped
understanding for instance the evolutions in the stack level.
A subsection (3.6, "Using the Rules to Compute Reactions") has been added,
which is useful, I think. I suggest that the authors could add comments to accompany the application
of transitions, and it would be even better to support the reading.
This is probably necessary because, as I already observed, a difficulty for the reader is also
that the model which is presented is very specific to the language Céu
(it probably would not apply to some other formalism).

With respect to the conference paper, the presentation of the semantics has evolved,
as I said, and the subsection illustrating the application of the semantic rules
has been added.
The transformation from Full Céu to Basic Céu is also more precisely described.
And there is also an additional detailed presentation of "first-class timers".
In relation to this, I must admit that I did not understand very well the philosophy behind this concept.
What are precisely the relations between the program, the underlying system
and the scheduler? This is not very clear.
This would benefit from a more precise explanation,
especially since I am not sure that the current additions of this new version of the article
correspond to the usual rules of 30% additional contents over 

the original LCTES submission...


I observed in my first review that an interesting feature of the language is the way

internal events introduce micro reactions within external reactions.

It made me think to the notion of oversampling in the language Signal,

which allows to have internal clocks more frequent than the clocks of input-output signals.

I regret that the authors did not seem to have had the curiosity to look at this

(the notion is described in many articles on Signal),

since no specific reference to the "polychronous" Signal language is made.

By the way, the "Related Work" section seems rather minimal

and the conclusion lacks openings towards the envisaged perspectives...


A few minor remarks:


- First line of Section 2: delete references [19, 21], they already appear twice before!

- Figure 5: some statements (await, emit) use parentheses, which are not present elsewhere

- Figure 5, line 12 : stmt_2 par/or stmt_2

- Under Figure 5: "are build up"

- Section 3.1: Even if it is well-known, give the meaning of "AST"

- Section 3.6: "Consider the the following"
